RESEARCH ARTICLE
https:/ /doi.org/10 . 1158/27 67 -9764. CRC-25-0030 
OPEN AC CESS 
Inferring Drug–Gene Relationships in Cancer 
Using Literature-Augmented Large Language 
Models 
Ying-Ju Lai
1,2
, Li- Ju Wang
1
, T yler M. Yasaka
1,3
, Yuna Shin
1,4
, Michael Ning
1,5
, Yanhao Tan
1,6
, Chien-Hung Shih
1
, 
Yibing Guo
1,7
, Po- Yuan Chen
1,8
, Hugh Gallo w ay
1,9
, Zhentao Liu
1,9
, Arun Das
1,6
, George C. Tseng
2
, 
Satda rshan P . Monga
1,6, 10, 11, 12
, Yufei Huang
1,6,9, 13
, and Yu-Chiao Chiu
1,6, 11, 14 
� 
ABS TRACT 
Understanding drug–gene relationships is essential for advancing targeted 
cancer therapies and drug repurposing strategies. However, the vast vol-
ume of biomedical literature poses significant challenges in efficiently 
extracting relevant insights. In this study, we developed an automated 
pipeline that leverages retrieval-augmented large language models (LLM) 
to infer drug–gene interactions using the most up-to-date biomedical lit-
erature. By integrating PubMed and state-of-the-art LLMs, our pipeline 
generates accurate, evidence-based inferences while addressing the limi-
tations of static LLMs, such as outdated knowledge and the risk of pro-
ducing misleading results. We systematically validated the pipeline’s 
performance using curated databases and demonstrated its ability to ac-
curately identify both well-established and emerging drug targets. Using 
our pipeline, we constructed a pan-cancer drug–gene interaction network 
among hundreds of FDA-approved drugs and key oncogenes. In a case 
study on liver cancer, we identified and validated an association between 
CTNNB1 mutations and enhanced sensitivity to sorafenib, highlighting a 
potential therapeutic strategy for this challenging mutation. To facilitate 
broad accessibility, we developed GeneRxGPT, a user-friendly web appli-
cation that enables cancer researchers to utilize the pipeline without pro-
gramming expertise or extensive computational resources. It provides 
intuitive modules for drug–gene inference and network visualization, 
streamlining the exploration and interpretation of drug–gene relationships. 
We anticipate that GeneRxGPT will empower researchers to accelerate 
drug discovery and development, making it a valuable resource for the 
cancer research community. 
Significance: This study presents a novel approach that integrates LLMs 
with real-time biomedical literature to uncover drug–gene relationships, 
transforming how cancer researchers identify therapeutic targets, 
repurpose drugs, and interpret complex molecular interactions. Gen-
eRxGPT, our user-friendly tool, enables researchers to leverage this ap-
proach without requiring computational expertise. 
Intr oduction 
Understanding the intricate relationships between genes and drugs is critical 
for advancing cancer treatment and improving patient outcomes. This 
knowledge underpins drug development by helping researchers decipher the 
molecular effects of drug perturbations, develop drug repurposing strategies, 
and optimize therapeutic efficacy (1). Drug–gene target relationships can 
involve direct drug binding into a gene product, such as a protein, or indirect 
modulation, in which genes influence drug sensitivity or drugs affect gene 
activity through downstream signaling pathways or other mechanisms (2, 3). 
Among the more than 38 million biomedical articles indexed in PubMed, 
many provide valuable insights into drug–gene interactions (4, 5). However, 
1
UPMC Hillman Cancer Cent er , Univ ersity of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylv ania. 
2
Department of Biostatistics and Health Data Science, School 
of Public Health, Univ ersity of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylv ania. 
3
Medical Sci-
entist Tr aining Pr ogr am, Univ ersity of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsbur gh, 
Pennsylv ania. 
4
Department of Electrical and Comput er Engineering, Carnegie 
Mellon Univ ersity , Pittsburgh, Pennsylv ania. 
5
Department of Com puter Science, The 
Univ ersity of Tex as at Austin, Austin, Te xas. 
6
Department of Medicine, Univ ersity of 
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylv ania. 
7
Department of Human 
Genetics, School of Public Health, Univ ersity of Pittsburgh, Pittsbur gh, Pennsyl-
v ania. 
8
Institute of Bioinformatics and Sy stems Biology , National Yang Ming Chiao 
Tung Univ ersity , Hsinchu, Taiwan. 
9
Department of Electrical and Comput er Engi-
neering, Sw anson School of Engineering, Univ ersity of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylv ania. 
10
Department of Pharmacology & Chemical Biology , Univ ersity of 
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylv ania. 
11
Pittsburgh Liv er Resear ch 
Cent er , Univer sity of Pittsburgh Medical Cent er and Univ ersity of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylv ania. 
12
Organ Pathobiology and Ther apeutics Institute, 
Unive rsity of Pittsburgh Medical C enter and Univ ersity of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, Penns ylva nia. 
13
Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Unive rsity of 
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylv ania. 
14
Department of Computational 
and Sy stems Biology , Univ ersity of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburg h, Pennsylv ania. 
Y .-J . Lai and L.-J . Wang contribut ed equally to this article. 
Corr esponding Authors: Yu-Chiao Chiu, UPMC Hillman Cancer Cent er , Univ ersity 
of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 5051 Centr e A v enue, Pittsbur gh, P A 15213. E-mail: 
YUC250@pitt.edu; and Yufei Huang, YUH119@pitt.ed u 
doi: 10. 1158/27 6 7 -97 64. CRC -25-0030 
This open acc ess article is distributed under the Cr eative Commons At tribution 
4.0 International ( C C B Y 4.0) license. 
©2025 The Authors; Published b y the American Association for Cancer Resear ch 
AACRJournals.org Cancer Res Commun; 5(4) April 2025 706 

the vast volume of studies makes it challenging for researchers to stay 
updated and synthesize findings efficiently (6). Therefore, developing an 
automated pipeline to analyze literature and extract drug–gene relationships 
is crucial for identifying novel targets and accelerating cancer therapy 
discovery (7). 
In recent years, large language models (LLM), such as GPT-4o developed by 
OpenAI, have demonstrated significant advancements in natural language 
processing (arXiv 2024.03.04.2303.08774). These models can perform com-
plex biomedical tasks beyond traditional methods, such as information 
summarization, knowledge discovery, and complex reasoning (8–10). 
However, LLMs have notable limitations, such as difficulty incorporating the 
latest research dynamically and a tendency to generate “hallucinations,” 
which are plausible but misleading responses not grounded in reliable 
knowledge (11, 12). To address these issues, “retrieval-augmented genera-
tion” enhances LLM performance by integrating relevant external sources, 
such as PubMed literature (13, 14). By incorporating up-to-date data, 
retrieval-based models can significantly reduce hallucinations and provide 
more reliable, evidence-based responses (12, 15). However, as implementing 
these techniques requires programmatic access to databases like PubMed and 
advanced programming skills, a more accessible tool is needed to democ-
ratize LLMs and retrieval-augmented methods, particularly for cancer re-
search, a rapidly evolving field. 
In this study, we developed an efficient approach for inferring drug–gene 
target relationships in cancer using LLMs grounded in up-to-date biomedical 
literature and assessed its reliability. We created an automated pipeline that 
integrates PubMed’s Application Programming Interface (API) with LLMs 
to retrieve literature, summarize information, and generate inferences. This 
pipeline was systematically evaluated using curated drug–gene target data-
bases, focusing on the impact of PubMed retrieval, comparisons among 
open-source and proprietary LLMs, and output consistency. We further 
applied our tool to construct a pan-cancer drug–gene interaction network 
covering hundreds of oncogenes and FDA-approved drugs. As a case study, 
we investigated liver cancer, a disease with significant treatment challenges 
(16, 17), by examining the traditionally undruggable CTNNB1 mutation. We 
validated its role in modulating sorafenib response using data from a clinical 
trial and in vitro screens. To enhance accessibility, we developed Gen-
eRxGPT, a user-friendly web tool implemented with the R Shiny app 
framework, available at https://shiny.crc.pitt.edu/generxgpt/. Given a gene, 
drug, and cancer type, this tool summarizes relevant PubMed literature, 
infers drug–gene relationship, and provides references with direct links. In 
summary, this study presents an efficient and accurate method for identi-
fying drug–gene relationships, which has the potential to accelerate phar-
macogenomic research, advance targeted therapies, and enhance cancer 
treatment development. 
Mat erials and Methods 
Ov er all pipeline design and implementation 
We developed an automated pipeline designed to infer relationships be-
tween a drug and a gene, either within a specific cancer type or more 
broadly across various cancers. The pipeline is built around a LLM that 
utilizes a retrieval-augmented technique to improve inference accuracy by 
grounding its responses in current biomedical literature. Specifically, the 
LLM generates inferences based on relevant abstracts or sentences 
extracted from PubMed (RRID: SCR_004846) articles. As illustrated in 
Fig. 1A, the pipeline consists of three primary components: retrieval, 
augmentation, and generation. The process begins with the retrieval of 
relevant abstracts or sentences from PubMed that mention interactions 
between the specified gene and drug in a cancer context. In the augmen-
tation step, the LLM is directed to incorporate this retrieved information 
when making inferences about the drug–gene relationship. Finally, the 
generation phase produces outputs that include an inference of the rela-
tionship, a rationale for the inference, and a summary of the supporting 
information retrieved from the literature. To enable full automation, the 
pipeline integrates the APIs of PubMed and various LLMs. Each compo-
nent is described in detail in the following sections. 
Retriev al of liter atur e with drug–gene–cancer 
information 
For abstract retrieval, we used a keyword search approach by PubMed’s “Best 
Match” algorithm (5), which uses machine learning incorporating more than 
150 relevance factors, such as article usage, term matching, article type, and 
publication date, to prioritize the most relevant articles (i.e., ranking articles 
by the “relevance” field). Specifically, we used queries in the format of 
“<gene> AND <drug> AND <cancer type>,” such as “CDK4 AND palbociclib 
AND breast cancer.” If a specific cancer type was not specified, we used 
“cancer” as a general query term to capture broader cancer-related literature. 
Our pipeline retrieved abstracts using the R rentrez library (PeerJ Preprints 
2017.08.25.3179), which provides an interface to the Entrez Programming 
Utilities API developed by the NCBI to access PubMed (18). Because 
PubMed updates its database daily, our approach ensures access to the most 
up-to-date biomedical literature. 
For sentence retrieval, we utilized LitSense (19), a specialized search tool 
indexing sentences from more than 36 million articles in PubMed and 
PubMed Central. LitSense ranks sentence relevance using a combination of 
inverse document frequency for term-based retrieval and text embeddings 
for semantic similarity to the search query. Using the LitSense API, we 
queried phrases in the format of “Does <drug> target <gene> in <cancer 
type>?”—for example, “Does palbociclib target CDK4 in breast cancer?” The 
top-ranked sentences were extracted for further analysis. Because LitSense 
regularly fetches updates from PubMed and PubMed Central, it ensures 
access to the latest sentence-level information. 
Proprietary and open-sour ce LLMs 
We evaluated six state-of-the-art LLMs in this study (Supplementary Table 
S1). GPT-4o (OpenAI) served as the primary model due to its superior 
performance in recent biomedical studies (medRxiv 2024.08.11.24311810; 
ref. 20). In addition, we evaluated another proprietary model, Gemini- 
1.5 Pro (Google; hereafter referred to as Gemini), and four open-source 
models, namely Llama-3-70B (Meta; Llama-3), Mixtral-8x7B (Mistral AI; 
Mixtral), Mistral-7B (Mistral AI; Mistral), and Llama-3.2-3B-PubMed 
(Llama-3.2-PubMed). Of note, Llama-3.2-PubMed is a Llama-3.2–based 
model fine-tuned specifically for biomedical applications using PubMed 
data. The proprietary models were accessed via their respective APIs. The 
open-source LLMs were downloaded and run using the Ollama platform on 
our local high-performance computing servers with 128 GB memory, 
16 CPUs, and an L40S 48 GB GPU at the University of Pittsburgh Center for 
Research Computing. All models were run with their default parameter 
AACRJournals.org Cancer Res Commun; 5(4) April 2025 70 7 
GeneRxGPT: LLM-Based Drug–Gene Relationship Inference 

Prompt
engineering
Retrieved
information
+
Relevant
abstracts
Relevant
sentences GPT-4oQuery
Gene
Drug
Cancer
Augmentation
Retrieval
Researcher
Response
Summary
Inference
Explanation
Generation
You are a biomedical AI system analyzing the relationship between a specific gene and a specific drug in 
a particular type of cancer. Focusing on the sentences provided, you will
1. Summarize the key points from all relevant sentences.
2. Make an inference about the direct targeting relationship between the drug and the gene in the 
specified cancer based on the sentences, using this format: 
The drug <drug name> <appears to target, does not appear to target, or is undetermined for> the gene 
<gene name> in <cancer type> with <high, medium, or low> confidence.
3. Provide step-by-step explanations for your inference, using full sentences or paragraphs without 
numeric list indicators like 1., 2., or newline characters ('\n'). If there is ambiguous or contradictory 
information within the explanation, describe how these issues were resolved during the analysis.
Note: A 'direct targeting relationship' exists if the drug specifically targets the gene in the specified cancer. 
If evidence is insufficient, the relationship should be classified as 'undetermined.'  The type of cancer can 
be general if 'cancer' is provided as the cancer type. 
Please present your response in JSON format, adhering to this structure:
{"Inference”:<value>, "Explanation":<value>, "Summary":<value>}
Note: Be concise and avoid overflow in each section. 
Gene: {gene from query}
Drug: {drug from query}
Cancer type: {cancer from query}
Sentences to be used:
{
Sentence 1.
Sentence 2.
...
Sentence 40.
}
ContextDefinitions
Output 
formatRetrieved information
A
B
Chain-of-thought
inference
Query
+
PubMed
LitSense
FIGURE 1 Automat ed LLM-based pipeline for drug–gene r elationship infer ence. A, Pipeline design. The pipeline is designed to infer the 
r elationship betw een a gene and a drug within a specific cancer type based on r ele v ant liter atur e. The pr ocess begins with a query containing a 
specific gene, drug, and cancer type. Rele v ant sentenc es or abstr acts ar e e xtr acted fr om PubMed using LitSense or the PubMed sear ch engine, 
r espectiv ely . The r etrie v ed information is then c ombined with a pr ompt as input for a LLM. The LLM gener ates a r esponse including a summary of 
the r etrie v ed information, an infer ence about the drug–gene r elationship within the specified cancer cont e xt, and a detailed e xplanation. B, Pr ompt for 
infer ence based on sentenc e-le v el r etrie v al. The pr ompt structur e includes cont e xt, chain-of-thought infer ence, definitions, output format, and 
r etrie v ed information. The cont e xt section instructs the LLM to analyze drug–gene r elationships in a specific cancer type. The chain-of-thought 
infer ence section outlines the steps for the LLMs to summarize r etrie v ed information, infer the drug–gene r elationship, and e xplain the infer ence 
pr oc ess. The definition section clarifies k e y terms, such as drug–gene targeting r elationships. The output format section specifies the r esponse 
structur e for auto mated r esult handling and do wnstr eam analysis. The pr ompt is merged with the query elements ( gene, drug, and canc er type) and 
r etrie v ed sentenc es. For abstr act-le v el r etrie v al, “sentenc es” is r eplaced b y “abstr acts. ” The alt ernativ e pr ompt designed to captur e both dir ect binding 
and indir ect modulation r elationships is sho wn in Supplementary Fig. S1. AI, artificial intelligenc e. 
708 Cancer Res Comm un; 5(4) April 2025 https://doi.org/10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-25-0030 | CANCER RESEARCH COMMUNICATIONS 
Lai et al. 

settings, including temperature control. The implementation of the baseline 
non-LLM BioBERT model (version BioBERT-Base-v1.1; ref. 21) is described 
in the Supplementary Methods. 
Promp t design, prompt engineering, and LLM input/ output 
The prompt serves as the text input that instructs the LLM to generate its 
output. We used prompt engineering techniques to ensure accurate and 
reliable responses. The prompt is organized into five sections: context, chain- 
of-thought inference, definition, output format, and retrieved information 
(Fig. 1B; Supplementary Fig. S1). 
1. Context: The prompt begins by assigning the LLM the role of a bio-
medical artificial intelligence system, specifying its objective to analyze 
drug–gene relationships within a specific cancer type based on pro-
vided literature rather than relying on the internal knowledge of 
the LLM. 
2. Chain-of-thought inference: The prompt uses a chain-of-thought 
strategy to guide the LLM through a logical and rational inference 
process (22). Specifically, we first instructed the LLM to summarize the 
key points from the retrieved information to ensure it comprehends the 
content. Next, it infers the drug–gene relationship with a confidence 
level. A core feature of the chain-of-thought strategy is to prompt the 
LLM to provide step-by-step explanations for the reasoning behind the 
inference. This technique has been shown to enhance reasoning ca-
pabilities (23). Additionally, we instructed the LLM to address how it 
resolves any ambiguous or contradictory information found in the 
retrieved data. 
3. Definitions: We defined key terms, such as “direct targeting relation-
ship” and “undetermined relationship,” in the context of drug–gene 
interactions in cancer. 
4. Output format: We specified a structured response format to facilitate 
further analysis. 
5. Retrieved information: The prompt ends by appending the retrieved 
abstracts or sentences to provide the LLM with relevant literature as 
evidence for the analysis. 
This prompt is then fed into the LLM to generate responses. As instructed in 
the chain-of-thought inference section, the output includes three main 
components: 
1 A summary of the retrieved information. 
2 An inference regarding the relationship between the drug and the gene 
in cancer, accompanied by a confidence level. The inference follows the 
following format: 
“The drug <drug name> <appears to target, does not appear to target, 
or is undetermined for> the gene <gene name> in <cancer type> with 
<high, medium, or low> confidence.” 
3 A step-by-step explanation of the inference process. 
Curat ed drug–gene re lationships for performanc e 
ev aluation 
To evaluate the performance of the inference pipeline, we compiled a total of 
539 positive and negative drug target cases from two databases: CancerDrugs 
DB and PharmGKB (RRID: SCR_002689). CancerDrugs DB is developed by 
the Anticancer Fund by collecting approved cancer drugs from various data 
sources (24). From this database, we extracted a total of 218 drugs that 
specifically target genes in particular cancer types, which served as positive 
drug–gene–cancer cases for the benchmark. Because some cases involved 
rare or highly specific cancer types, we recategorized the cancer types based 
on the primary sites, resulting in a total of 25 distinct cancer types. Negative 
drug–gene relationships were curated from PharmGKB (25, 26). We col-
lected 321 drug–gene pairs annotated as “not associated” in PharmGKB, 
meaning these pairs were evaluated but not found to have statistically sig-
nificant relationships. Due to the lack of specific disease annotations for 
these pairs, we used “cancer” as a general term in our pipeline to maintain 
focus on oncology. This approach aligns with the limited availability of 
documented negative cases while prioritizing likely true nonassociations (see 
“Discussion”). 
Performance e valuation metrics 
For quantitative evaluation, LLM inferences were converted to scores from 
1 to 9: 1 to 3 for nontarget, 4 to 6 for undetermined, and 7 to 9 for target 
relationships (Supplementary Fig. S2). Confidence levels (low, medium, and 
high) were integrated; for example, a score of 1 represents a high-confidence 
nontarget relationship, whereas 9 indicates a high-confidence target 
relationship. We utilized multiple performance metrics to assess the ability of 
the LLM to distinguish between positive and negative drug–gene cases. The 
primary metric was the area under the ROC curve (AUC), which reflects the 
model’s overall discrimination ability (27). The Youden index (28) was ap-
plied to determine the threshold score for each LLM in the comparative 
analysis. Additional evaluation metrics, including accuracy, sensitivity, 
specificity, precision, recall, F1 score, and κ values, were provided for a 
comprehensive assessment. 
Construction of a drug–gene int eraction netw ork 
To construct a comprehensive drug–gene interaction network, we refined 
the prompt to infer two types of drug-targeting mechanisms: direct 
binding, in which a drug directly binds to the protein of a gene, and 
indirect modulation, in which a gene influences drug sensitivity or a drug 
affects gene expression (Supplementary Fig. S1). The pipeline was applied 
to pairwise combinations of 214 well-documented oncogenes from the 
Catalogue of Somatic Mutations in Cancer (RRID: SCR_002260; the tier- 
1 Cancer Gene Census collection; ref. 29) and 144 FDA-approved on-
cology drugs from the Repurposing Data Portal (30). The LLM was 
instructed to summarize the major cancer type(s) associated with each 
drug–gene interaction based on retrieved sentences. We categorized each 
interaction into 26 cancer groups: 25 major cancer types defined by 
primary sites, and an “other” category for less common cancer types. 
Each drug–gene pair could be assigned to multiple groups, reflecting its 
relevance across different cancer types. The identified drug–gene inter-
actions were visualized and analyzed as a network using Cytoscape 
(RRID: SCR_003032; ref. 31). 
Dev elopment of the GeneRxGPT w eb to ol 
We developed GeneRxGPT, an interactive web tool designed to make the 
pipeline accessible. In addition to retrieving literature from PubMed and 
LitSense, GeneRxGPT utilizes the PubChemR and Webchem R libraries to 
obtain drug-related information from PubChem (RRID: SCR_004284), 
including drug structures, Simplified Molecular Input Line Entry System 
codes, and biochemical features. The web server was developed using 
AACRJournals.org Cancer Res Commun; 5(4) April 2025 709 
GeneRxGPT: LLM-Based Drug–Gene Relationship Inference 

R (v4.4.0) and R Shiny (v1.8.1; ref. 32). The httr (33) R library (v1.4.7) 
interfaced with the APIs of LitSense and proprietary LLMs. Additional 
primary R libraries for data processing and visualization included rcdk 
(34) and stringr. The web tool also provides access to the drug–gene in-
teraction network with easy-to-use filtering and visualization tools. De-
tailed documentation and examples guide users through its features. The 
web server currently runs on VMWare infrastructure with 8 Intel cores 
and 64 GB of RAM, hosted at the University of Pittsburgh Center for 
Research Computing. 
Data a vailabili ty 
All datasets used in this study are accessible through the sources described in 
the previous sections, Supplementary Methods, and cited references. The 
developed pipeline and results are available via the GeneRxGPT web tool at 
https://shiny.crc.pitt.edu/generxgpt/. The source code is available on figshare 
(https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.27849816). 
Results 
Automat ed pipeline for liter atur e-based inferenc e of 
drug–gene re lationships 
We developed a retrieval-augmented approach to harness the capabilities 
of emerging LLMs for inferring drug–gene relationships in cancer. Rather 
than depending solely on the internal knowledge of LLMs, our approach 
integrates literature-based evidence to ensure that inferences are groun-
ded in the most current, referenceable data. We used GPT-4o, the latest 
model released by OpenAI, as the primary model due to its superior 
performance in recent biomedical studies. The pipeline, as illustrated in 
Fig. 1A, interfaces programmatically with GPT-4o and PubMed and 
comprises three core components: (i) retrieval of relevant sentences or 
abstracts from PubMed that describe interactions between the drug, gene, 
and cancer type of interest; (ii) augmentation of LLM-generated infer-
ences by incorporating this retrieved information; and (iii) generation of 
inference results. 
The pipeline produces three main outputs: (i) a concise summary of the 
retrieved literature; (ii) an inference regarding the drug–gene relationship 
within a cancer context, with an associated confidence level; and (iii) a step- 
by-step explanation that clarifies how the retrieved literature supports the 
inference. By grounding the inference process in current literature, our 
pipeline enhances result transparency and interpretability, which are im-
portant for ensuring the robustness and reliability of drug–gene interaction 
exploration. We instructed the LLM to infer two types of drug–target rela-
tionships: (i) direct binding (for systematic performance evaluation; Fig. 1B) 
and (ii) indirect modulation (for constructing a drug–gene interaction net-
work that includes both direct and indirect relationships; Supplementary 
Fig. S1). 
Identification of w ell-studied and misclassified drug 
targets 
To illustrate the effectiveness of our pipeline in identifying pharmaco-
genomic relationships, we began by testing several well-known drug 
targets. For instance, palbociclib is a chemotherapeutic agent and the 
first CDK4 inhibitor approved for breast cancer (35). Our pipeline 
summarized sentences retrieved from PubMed concerning palbociclib, 
CDK4, and breast cancer and correctly stated that palbociclib has been 
approved for metastatic estrogen receptor/progesterone receptor– 
positive, HER2-negative breast cancer (Fig. 2A; ref. 36). It correctly 
inferred that palbociclib targets CDK4 in breast cancer with high con-
fidence. We then assessed the capability to identify nonassociations, such 
as metformin and BRCA2. The pipeline retrieved sentences discussing 
the targeting of BRCA2 in breast cancer by various drugs, including 
PARP inhibitors and mTORC1 (37), but found no evidence linking 
metformin to BRCA2. Consequently, the inference reported with high 
confidence that metformin does not target BRCA2 in breast cancer 
(Supplementary Fig. S3). 
We further examined challenging cases involving drugs whose primary 
mechanisms have been refined by new evidence. One such case was CX- 
5461, which was initially characterized as targeting RNA polymerase I 
transcription (38). However, emerging evidence published in 2021 identified 
TOP2B as its primary target, raising potential safety concerns (39). When 
querying GPT-4o directly during our study in October 2024 (version 2024- 
05-13) without any retrieved literature, the model incorrectly inferred that 
CX-5461 does not target TOP2B in cancer (Supplementary Fig. S4), likely 
due to outdated information within its internal knowledge base. In contrast, 
our pipeline, even when presented with mixed information from both older 
and recent studies, correctly identified that CX-5461 targets TOP2B in cancer 
with high confidence (Fig. 2B). A similar case was observed with OTS964, a 
drug initially developed to target the protein kinase TOPK (40) but later 
shown to primarily target CDK11 (41, 42). Our pipeline correctly inferred 
that OTS964 targets CDK11 with high confidence, whereas GPT-4o alone 
incorrectly identified TOPK as the main target (Supplementary Fig. S5). 
These examples, covering well-known, nonassociated, and misclassified drug 
targets, demonstrate the robustness of our pipeline based on current 
literature. 
Sy stem atic performanc e ev aluation for optimizing 
information retrie v al 
We systematically evaluated the ability our pipeline to distinguish tar-
geting (positive) and nonassociating (negative) drug–gene relationships. 
For this assessment, we compiled a dataset of 539 well-documented 
drug–gene cases from CancerDrugs DB and PharmGKB, including 
218 positive and 321 negative cases as ground truth. To focus the eval-
uation, we specifically instructed GPT-4o to infer direct targeting rela-
tionships (Fig. 1B). The inference results were converted into scores to 
quantitatively assess performance (see “Materials and Methods”; Sup-
plementary Fig. S2). 
A critical aspect of this evaluation was to determine the optimal amount of 
retrieved information to maximize performance, as retrieving more data 
could either provide useful context or introduce irrelevant information. 
After testing retrievals ranging from 1 to 100 sentences, we found that re-
trieving the top 40 sentences yielded the highest AUC of 0.94 (Supple-
mentary Fig. S6A; Supplementary Table S2). On average, our pipeline 
analyzed each drug–gene–cancer case in 4.3 seconds at a cost of $0.014, 
based on API rates as of October 2024. This represents a 56-fold increase in 
speed over human reading time (43). Similarly, we analyzed the numbers of 
retrieved abstracts and found that the top 10 most relevant abstracts pro-
duced the best results (AUC ¼ 0.91; Supplementary Fig. S6B; Supplementary 
Table S3). 
710 Cancer Res Comm un; 5(4) April 2025 https://doi.org/10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-25-0030 | CANCER RESEARCH COMMUNICATIONS 
Lai et al. 

Performance c omparison across vari ous LLMs 
We further compared GPT-4o with five other state-of-the-art LLMs across 
sentence-level, abstract-level, and no retrieval. GPT-4o with sentence re-
trieval achieved the highest performance overall (AUC ¼ 0.94; Fig. 2C), 
surpassing its own abstract-level (AUC ¼ 0.91) and non-retrieval 
(AUC ¼ 0.88) methods. The other proprietary model, Gemini, performed 
comparably well, with sentence, abstract, and no retrieval yielding AUCs of 
0.92, 0.90, and 0.87, respectively. Interestingly, Mistral, an open-source LLM, 
performed better without retrieval, achieving an AUC of 0.91 (Fig. 2C). 
We also used κ values to assess the agreement between inferred drug–gene 
relationships and the ground truth. Gemini and GPT-4o demonstrated the 
highest agreement (κ values, 0.84 and 0.80; Fig. 2D) when using sentence- 
level retrieval (Supplementary Tables S4–S6). In contrast, Llama-3.2- 
PubMed and Mistral performed the worst with abstract-level retrieval 
AB
CD
κ
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
GPT−4o Gemini Llama-3 Mixtral Mistral
Query: Palbociclib, CDK4, breast cancer
Model: GPT-4o with sentence-level retrieval
Inference
The drug palbociclib appears to target the gene CDK4 in breast cancer 
with high confidence.
Summary
Explanation
Query: CX-5461, TOP2B, cancer
Model: GPT-4o with sentence-level retrieval
Inference
The drug CX-5461 appears to target the gene TOP2B in cancer with 
high confidence.
Summary
Explanation
Llama-3.2
-PubMed
Sentences Abstracts None
Retrieved information
AUC
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
GPT−4o Gemini Llama-3 Mixtral MistralLlama-3.2
-PubMed
Sentences Abstracts None
Retrieved information
Palbociclib is a selective CDK4/6 inhibitor  that has been widely 
approved for the treatment of various types of breast cancer , 
particularly ER+, HER2– advanced or metastatic breast cancer. The drug 
works by targeting the cyclin-dependent kinases CDK4 and CDK6, which 
are crucial for cell cycle regulation and proliferation in breast cancer cells. 
Palbociclib has shown significant success in clinical trials and is used as 
part of combination therapies to improve therapeutic outcomes in breast 
cancer patients.
All provided sentences consistently indicate that palbociclib specifically 
targets CDK4 and CDK6 in breast cancer. There is no contradictory or 
ambiguous information that suggests otherwise. The approval status of 
palbociclib for various forms of breast cancer, including ER+, HER2– 
advanced or metastatic types, further solidifies this relationship. Thus, 
based on the sentences, it is clear with high confidence that palbociclib 
directly targets CDK4 in breast cancer.
CX-5461 primarily targets the gene TOP2B, exhibiting high binding 
affinity and selective activity  towards it, particularly in high-risk 
neuroblastoma. Multiple studies confirm the preferential target ing of 
TOP2B over TOP2A, with significant cytotoxic effects attributed to this 
interaction. CX-5461 functions as a topoisomerase inhibitor, sp ecifically 
inhibiting TOP2B, and this interaction has been validated through various 
biochemical and cellular assays. The targeting of TOP2B by CX-5461 also 
raises safety concerns due to TOP2B's expression in normal tissues, 
which warrants close monitoring in clinical trials.
The provided sentences consistently indicate that CX-5461 primarily 
targets TOP2B. Multiple lines of evidence from biochemical assays, 
molecular dynamics simulations, and cellular studies  support that 
CX-5461 has a higher binding affinity and preferential activity  towards 
TOP2B over TOP2A. Studies specifically highlight the selective cytotoxic 
effects of CX-5461 in high-risk neuroblastoma driven by TOP2B inhibition. 
Additionally, the mention of safety concerns due to TOP2B targeting in 
clinical trials further substantiates the direct targeting rela tionship. No 
contradictory evidence was found in the sentences provided, leading to a 
high confidence inference.
FIGURE 2 Exam ple pipeline outputs and performance e v aluation acr oss r etrie v al appr oaches and LLMs. A, Pipeline output for an established 
drug–gene r elationship betw een palbociclib and CDK4 in br east cancer . B, Output for CX -5461, a drug with a hist orically misclassified target, using 
sentenc e-le v el r etrie v al. CX -5461 was pr e viously misclassified as targ eting RNA polymer ase I until e vidence fr om 2021 c onfirmed TOP2B as the 
primary target. Sentenc e-le v el r etrie v al enabled the pipeline to corr ectly identify TOP2B with high c onfidence, wher eas GPT -4o without r etrie v al did 
not r ec ognize this targ et (see Supplementary Fig. S4), lik ely due to outdat ed information. C and D , Comparison of AUC and κ statistics acr oss LLMs 
and r etrie v al methods. Bar plots sho w the performance of six differ ent LLMs ( GPT -4o, Gemini, Llama-3, Llama-3.2-PubMed, Mixtr al, and Mistr al) using 
sentenc e r etrie v al, abstr act r etrie v al, and without r etrie v al (r elying solely on LLM kno wledge). The κ statistics measur es the agr eement betw een LLM 
infer ence and the tw o databases. Detailed r esults ar e av ailable in Supplementary Tables S4–S6. 
AACRJournals.org Cancer Res Commun; 5(4) April 2025 711 
GeneRxGPT: LLM-Based Drug–Gene Relationship Inference 

(κ values, 0.38 and 0.35). Overall, our analysis highlighted the effectiveness of 
sentence-level retrieval across most models. Additional performance metrics 
are provided in Supplementary Tables S4–S6. 
As a baseline, we fine-tuned BioBERT (21), a non-LLM method, for extracting 
drug–gene relations from retrieved sentences (See Supplementary Methods). 
BioBERT was evaluated on a simplified binary classification (target vs. not) 
without considering cancer context and showed limited performance 
(AUC ¼ 0.55; Supplementary Table S4). Aggregating sentence-level results at the 
drug–gene level further yielded a low κ value of 0.11. These findings highlight the 
need for advanced LLMs to analyze complex drug–gene relationships. 
Evaluation of c onfidence lev els and c onsiste ncy in 
GPT -4o infer ence 
Based on performance evaluation results, our final pipeline was implemented 
using GPT-4o with sentence-level retrieval. In addition to target/nontarget 
inference, GPT-4o also assigned a confidence level (high, medium, or low) to 
each prediction. To assess the reliability of the confidence levels, we con-
ducted a contamination test on 50 positive and 50 negative drug–gene– 
cancer cases. For each case, we progressively replaced the 40 relevant re-
trieved sentences with irrelevant ones randomly sampled from arXiv and 
analyzed how the outputs changed (see Supplementary Methods). When all 
40 sentences were irrelevant, inferences were undetermined with low con-
fidence (Supplementary Fig. S7). Adding a single relevant sentence typically 
shifted the inference to target, with confidence levels increasing as more 
relevant sentences were included (Supplementary Fig. S7A). A similar trend 
was observed for negative cases (Supplementary Fig. S7B), confirming that 
the confidence levels meaningfully reflect the relevance of retrieved evidence. 
We also evaluated the consistency of GPT-4o responses by repeating the 
same input query five times (Supplementary Methods). Overall, the high 
intraclass correlation coefficient (0.86; 95% confidence interval: 0.84–0.88) 
indicates strong reliability despite inherent generative variability in LLMs. 
Mapping a pan-cancer drug–target int er action netw ork 
We utilized our pipeline to develop a comprehensive map of drug–gene in-
teractions to uncover potential therapeutic targets and explore drug repur-
posing opportunities. This process involved analyzing pairwise relationships 
between 144 FDA-approved oncology drugs and 214 well-documented on-
cogenes from COSMIC. For this analysis, we refined our prompt to assess both 
direct binding and indirect modulation relationships for each drug–gene pair 
(Supplementary Fig. S1). The pipeline also annotated each pair with the as-
sociated major cancer type(s) based on retrieved sentences. 
Our pipeline identified 854 high-confidence drug–gene interaction pairs, 
involving 114 drugs and 154 genes (Fig. 3A; Supplementary Table S7). Of 
these pairs, 30.7% (n ¼ 262) were direct binding relationships, whereas 
69.3% (n ¼ 592) involved indirect modulation (Fig. 3B), likely reflecting the 
complexity of indirect interactions. In the constructed pan-cancer drug–gene 
network, the top hub gene of the network was mTOR, which interacted with 
45 drugs, followed by BCL2, STAT3, and EGFR (Fig. 3A; Supplementary 
Table S8). These genes are central to key cellular processes like proliferation 
and survival, underscoring their importance in cancer therapies. 
Next, we assessed the cancer type specificity of these interactions. On average, 
each drug–gene pair was associated with 2.8 cancer types. As shown in Fig. 3B, 
only 347 pairs (40.6%) were cancer type–specific. This distribution suggests 
that most drug–gene interactions span multiple cancer types and highlights 
shared molecular pathways. Breast and lung cancers had the most drug–gene 
pairs (403 and 338, respectively), reflecting prevalent cancers with extensive 
therapeutic development and research interest. In contrast, eye cancer, bile 
duct cancer, and myeloma had the fewest (4, 12, and 15, respectively; Fig. 3C). 
Our analysis also revealed drugs with high connectivity in the network 
(Supplementary Table S9). Cisplatin, a DNA/RNA synthesis inhibitor, 
emerged as the top hub drug (interacting with 44 genes), followed by kinase 
inhibitors sorafenib and regorafenib and a microtubule inhibitor paclitaxel. 
These results underscore the broad versatility of these drugs in interacting 
with multiple genes. Most drugs (77.2%; n ¼ 88) exhibited multitarget 
profiles. In particular, all 38 kinase inhibitors interacted with multiple genes 
(Fig. 3D), reflecting their polypharmacologic potential (44). Similarly, im-
mune modulators (100.0%; n ¼ 2) and chemotherapy agents, including 
DNA/RNA synthesis inhibitors (73.1%; n ¼ 26) and microtubule inhibitors 
(75.0%; n ¼ 8), showed extensive multitarget interactions. This finding aligns 
with the broad mechanisms of action of these drugs within complex cellular 
and immunologic contexts. In contrast, targeted therapeutic approaches, 
such as receptor agonists, hormonal modulators, and the ion channel 
modulator, demonstrated a higher proportion of single-target specificity 
(60.0%, 66.7%, and 100.0% for 5, 3, and 1 drugs, respectively). In summary, 
our pan-cancer network provides a detailed landscape of direct and indirect 
drug–target relationships, highlighting the versatility of certain drugs across 
cancers and genes. 
Identification and vali dation of CTNNB1 mutations in 
sorafenib sensitivity modulation in liv er canc er 
Liver cancer is the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, 
underscoring the urgent need for novel therapeutic strategies (16, 17). To 
investigate potential solutions, we extracted 119 drug–gene pairs (47 drugs and 
55 genes) associated with liver cancer from the pan-cancer network (Fig. 4A). 
Sorafenib exhibited the highest number of gene interactions. This multikinase 
inhibitor is the first FDA-approved drug for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), 
the most common type of liver cancer in adults. It interacted with 25 genes 
(17 through indirect modulation and 8 through direct binding). Following 
sorafenib, lenvatinib, another approved drug for HCC, emerged as an im-
portant multitarget kinase inhibitor, with seven indirect and four direct gene 
interactors. Within the network, STAT3, JUN, and MTOR were identified as 
the top hub genes, with relationships to 8, 8, and 7 drugs, respectively. These 
genes have pivotal roles in liver cancer therapeutics due to their roles in 
regulating key pathways involved in cell proliferation, survival, and metabolism 
(45–47). 
We turned our attention to CTNNB1, the sixth-ranked hub gene in our 
constructed network and one of the most frequently mutated genes in liver 
cancer (48). Directly targeting CTNNB1 with drugs has proven challenging 
(49), and patients with mutated CTNNB1 often respond poorly to the 
standard-of-care immune checkpoint inhibitors (50). Aligning with current 
knowledge, CTNNB1 showed no direct targeting relationship with any drug 
in the network. However, it demonstrated high-confidence indirect inter-
actions with sorafenib, trametinib, and everolimus, indicating a potential 
therapeutic benefit of these drugs for this subset of patients with HCC. 
To validate this observation, we focused on sorafenib due to its established 
clinical use and the availability of extensive data from large-scale studies. 
712 Cancer Res Comm un; 5(4) April 2025 https://doi.org/10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-25-0030 | CANCER RESEARCH COMMUNICATIONS 
Lai et al. 

Specifically, we reanalyzed data from the IMBrave150 phase 3 clinical trial in 
HCC (see Supplementary Methods; ref. 51). Kaplan–Meier curves showed 
significantly improved progression-free survival in CTNNB1-mutated patients 
treated with sorafenib compared with those with wild-type CTNNB1 (Fig. 4B; 
n ¼ 19 vs. 26; log-rank test P ¼ 0.044), suggesting a meaningful modulation of 
treatment response. However, no significant difference was observed in overall 
survival, likely due to alternative pathways or resistance mechanisms. 
To further isolate the effects of sorafenib and CTNNB1 in a controlled setting 
with clearer genetic backgrounds, we examined drug sensitivity data (52) and 
CRISPR knockout screening results among liver cancer cell lines from Cancer 
Dependency Map (DepMap; Supplementary Methods; ref. 53). Indeed, 
CTNNB1-mutated cell lines showed significantly greater sensitivity to sorafenib 
compared with wild-type cells (Fig. 4C; n ¼ 2 vs. 18; one-tailed Mann– 
Whitney U test P ¼ 0.047). These findings support the role of CTNNB1 
mutations in modulating sorafenib response. Additionally, we observed a 
positive correlation (Pearson correlation coefficient ¼ 0.45; n ¼ 18) between 
the reduction in cancer cell viability induced by sorafenib treatment and that 
caused by CTNNB1 knockout. This suggests that cells more dependent on 
CTNNB1 are also more responsive to sorafenib treatment (Fig. 4D). In sum-
mary, our findings demonstrate that CTNNB1 mutations are associated with 
enhanced sensitivity to sorafenib in liver cancer, highlighting a potential 
therapeutic strategy for targeting this vulnerable patient subset. 
GeneRxGPT: a user-friendly w eb to ol for the infer ence 
pipeline 
To enhance accessibility for cancer researchers, we developed GeneRxGPT, 
an intuitive R Shiny web application that provides easy access to the pipeline 
and drug–gene network without requiring programming skills or extensive 
computational resources (Fig. 5A). The tool interfaces with PubMed, Pub-
Chem, and LLMs through built-in APIs. It is hosted on our institutional 
Direct binding
(30.7%)
Indirect modulation
(69.3%)
Cancer type–
specific (40.6%)
≥2 cancer
types (59.4%)
0 100 200 300 400
Breast
Lung
Colorectal
Prostate
Ovarian
Gastric
Liver
Brain
Pancreatic
Skin
Bladder
Other
Thyroid
HNC
Leukemia
Kidney
Cervical
Sarcoma
NBL
Bone
Esophageal
UEC
Lymphoma
Myeloma
Bile duct
Eye
Number of
drug–gene pairs
AB
CD
Drug
Gene
Direct binding
Indirect modulation
01 0 2 0 3 0
 Kinase
inhibitors
 DNA/RNA
synthesis
inhibitors
 Enzyme
inhibitors
 Receptor
antagonists
 Microtubule
inhibitors
 Receptor
agonists
 Receptor
modulators
 Hormonal
modulators
 Immune
modulators
Other
 Ion
channel
modulators
40
Number of drugs
Multitarget
Single-target
FLT3
MYCN
JUN
SRC
CDK4
BCL2
JAK2
ALK
STAT3
Estradiol valerate
Olaparib
Enzalutamide
Sorafenib
MTOR
Doxorubicin
Cisplatin
KIT
Pazopanib
ARMET
Paclitaxel
Tamoxifen
Cabozantinib
Regorafenib
Lenvatinib
Lapatinib
EverolimusGemcitabine
Afatinib
Gefitinib
5-Fluorouracil
Trametinib
Crizotinib
Temozolomide
ImatinibSunitinib
Vandetanib
Axitinib
MYC
MDM2
EGFR
Palbociclib
FIGURE 3 Pan-cancer drug–target inter action netw ork. A, The netw ork includes 854 drug–gene pairs identified b y our pipeline thr ough pairwise 
combinations of 214 oncogen es and 144 FD A -appr o v ed oncology drugs as high-confidenc e drug–gene inter actions. For each identified pair , the 
pipeline summariz es the major cancer type(s ) based on which the infer ence was made fr om the r etrie v ed information. In the netw ork, cir cles and 
squar es r epr esent drugs and genes, r espectiv ely . Edge c olors indicate the type of inter action. Node sizes ar e pr oportional to the degr ee of 
connectivity (i.e., the number of inter actions), with names labeled for genes and drugs with mor e than 10 c onnections. Drugs and genes discussed in 
the main te xt ar e highlighted in bold. B, Distributions of inter action types ( dir ect binding or indir ect modulation) and canc er type specificity 
(inter actions pr esent in a single or multiple cance r types). C, Distribution of canc er types acr oss 25 primary sites and an additional “other” gr oup of 
all other cancers. Note that each drug–gene inter action may be associated with multiple cancer types. HNC, head and neck cancer; NBL, 
neur oblastoma; UEC, ut erine/endometrial cancer . D , Distribution of drug mechanisms of action and targ et specificity , which categoriz es drugs as 
single-target (int er acting with only one of the 214 genes) or multitar get (inter acting with multiple genes) . 
AACRJournals.org Cancer Res Commun; 5(4) April 2025 713 
GeneRxGPT: LLM-Based Drug–Gene Relationship Inference 

A B
+ +
+
+
+
+
+
++ + ++ +
0
25
50
75
100
0369 1 2
Progression-free duration (month)
Survival probability (%)
CTNNB1-WT
(n = 26)
CTNNB1-Mut
(n = 19)
Log-rank
P = 0.044
Sorafenib response in patients with 
HCC (IMBrave150 trial)
−1.0
−0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
CTNNB1-Mut
(n = 2)
CTNNB1-WT
(n = 18)
C Sorafenib response in liver cancer
cell lines (PRISM drug screen)
 Sorafenib sensitivity
(Log2 fold change) 
Sensitivity
Mann–Whitney U test
P = 0.047
D Sorafenib  and CTNNB1 dependency
(PRISM and DepMap CRISPR screens)
−1.5 −1.0 −0.5 0.0−2.0
−1.0
−0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
 Sorafenib sensitivity
(Log2 fold change) 
CTNNB1 genetic dependency
(Chronos gene-effect score)
Drug
sensitivity
Gene
dependencyCorrelation = 0.45
SNU-398
HUH6
Afatinib
Erlotinib
Palbociclib
PIM1
MDM2
Pazopanib
Alpelisib
Estradiol-valerate
Pirarubicin
ABL2
Etoposide
Raloxifene
Axitinib
AKT2
Regorafenib
HIF1A
Everolimus
Ribociclib
PDGFB
CDK6
FUBP1
PDGFRA
CTNNB1
SN-38
HGF
IL7R
Sorafenib
Cabozantinib
Gemcitabine
BRAF
MET
UBR5
CXCR4
HLF
Hydroxyurea
DDX5 Cisplatin
FGFR1
EGFR
JUN
Lenvatinib
HOXA13
RAC1FGFR4
KAT6A
Cobimetinib
KIT KDR
MAP2K1
KRAS
MAPK1
RAF1
RET NRAS
Dabrafenib
SRC PDGFRB
Dactinomycin
XPO1
PLAG1
FOXA1
Lorlatinib
SRSF3
Darolutamide
Methotrexate
Tamoxifen
JAK2
Mitoxantrone
CCND1
SND1
Docetaxel
PTPN11
Temozolomide
5-fluorouracil
AR
TFEB
Tivozanib
CCND3
Doxorubicin
Neratinib
Topotecan
Abemaciclib
MTOR
Olaparib
Trametinib
AKT1
Encorafenib
CDK4
Vandetanib
Abiraterone
BCL2
Oxaliplatin
Vinblastine
MYC
Epirubicin
DDIT3
Actinomycin-d
HNRNPA2B1
Paclitaxel
STAT3
Eribulin
BRD4
Drug
Gene
Direct binding
Indirect modulation
FIGURE 4 Drug–target netw ork in liv er cance r . A, Drug–target netw ork in liv er cancer . The netw ork was construct ed b y e xtr acting drug–gene 
pairs associated with liv er cancer fr om Fig. 3A, in which liv er cancer was identified as a primary cancer type among multiple possible types gener ated 
thr ough GPT -4o infer ence. The node size and font size ar e pr oportional to the degr ee (i. e., the number of connections ). Drugs and genes discussed in 
the main te xt ar e highlighted in bold. B, Kaplan–Meier curv es for pr ogr ession-fr ee surviv al of patients with HC C, the major type of liv er canc er , 
tr eated with sor afenib in the IMBr av e150 clinical trial, comparing CTNNB1-mutated (CTNNB1-Mut; n ¼ 19) and CTNNB1 wild-type patients (CTNNB1- WT ; 
n ¼ 26). Statistical significance was assessed b y the log-r ank test. C, Bo xplots sho wing differ ential sensitivity to sor afenib betw een CTNNB1-mutated 
(CTNNB1-Mut; n ¼ 2) and CTNNB1 wild-type liv er canc er c ell lines (CTNNB1- WT ; n ¼ 18). Drug sensitivity data ar e r epr esented as the log
2 
fold 
change in cell c ounts follo wing tr eatment, deriv ed fr om the Pr ofiling Relativ e Inhibition Simultaneously in Mixtur es (PRISM) drug scr eening pr oject. 
Statistical significance was assessed b y the one-tailed Mann– Whitne y U test. D , Corr elation betw een CTNNB1 genetic dependency (r epr esented b y 
the Chr onos gene-effect scor e fr om DepMap ) and sor afenib sensitivity (PRISM) in liv er cancer cell lines (n ¼ 18). A mor e negativ e gene-effect scor e 
r epr esents a str onger genetic dependency . The names of c ell lines e xhibiting str ong dependency on CTNNB1 (with gene-effect scor es < � 1) ar e 
labeled. 
714 Cancer Res Comm un; 5(4) April 2025 https://doi.org/10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-25-0030 | CANCER RESEARCH COMMUNICATIONS 
Lai et al. 

high-performance computing infrastructure and can be accessed at https:// 
shiny.crc.pitt.edu/generxgpt/. A comprehensive overview, detailed user 
manual, and input examples are provided on the help page (Fig. 5A). 
GeneRxGPT features two main modules: (i) drug–gene inference and (ii) 
drug–gene network, which run the literature-based pipeline and visualize 
the pan-cancer drug–gene network, respectively. The drug–gene inference 
module leverages the automated pipeline to infer drug–gene targeting 
relationships based on real-time literature retrieval. Researchers can simply 
input a gene (gene symbol or protein name) and a drug (name, Simplified 
Molecular Input Line Entry System code, or PubChem CID) and select a 
cancer type through the input panel (Fig. 5B). Users can choose from the two 
best-performing LLMs, GPT-4o and Gemini, and specify their preferred 
retrieval method (sentences or abstracts) and exclusion criteria (e.g., pre-
prints). GeneRxGPT first retrieves detailed information about the query drug 
and provides a direct URL link to its profile in PubChem (Fig. 5C). The tool 
AC
B
Overview and 
detailed user manual
Explanation
Summary
Inference
Link to PubChem
Link to PubMed
Main outputs
References
Drug information from PubChem
Input panel
Homepage
D
Drug–gene interaction network
FIGURE 5 The GeneRxGPT w eb tool. A, Homepage. The homepage pr o vides acc ess to the main drug–gene infer ence module, as w ell as a link to 
the drug–gene netw ork module. Users can easily test the tool using a built-in e xample. A compr ehensiv e user manual, along with figur e and table 
legends, is av ailable on the help pages or b y clicking the question mark icon in individual output sections. B, Input panel of the drug–gene infer ence 
module. Users enter a gene ( gene s ymbol or pr otein name), drug [name, PubChem CID , or Simplified Molecular Input Line Entry Sy stem (SMILES) 
code ], and cancer type into the input panel. Users can select the desir ed LLMs ( either GPT -4o or Gemini- 1.5 Pr o, curr ently av ailable) and choose 
whether the infer ence is based on sentenc e- or abstr act-le v el r etrie v al. C, Output panels of the drug–gene infer ence module. Based on the abstr acts 
or sentenc es r etrie v ed fr om r ele v ant publications in PubMed, the selected LLM gener ates an infer ence and detailed e xplanation of the drug–gene 
r elationship in the specified cancer type, along with a summary of the r etrie v ed information. Refer ences to r etrie v ed sentenc es or abstr acts ar e 
pr o vided with PubMed PMIDs and hyperlinks. Additionally , detailed drug information fr om PubChem is pr esented b y an informativ e table and the 
drug structur e. D , Drug–gene inter action netw ork. This module allo ws users to visualize a drug–target inter action netw ork among 214 oncogenes 
and 144 FD A -appr o v ed drugs, either acr oss all cancers or within a specific cancer type. 
AACRJournals.org Cancer Res Commun; 5(4) April 2025 715 
GeneRxGPT: LLM-Based Drug–Gene Relationship Inference 

then compiles the retrieved sentences or abstracts into a prompt and submits it 
to the selected LLM for analysis. As shown in Fig. 5C, the output includes a concise 
one-sentence inference regarding the drug–gene relationship, a detailed explanation 
of the inference process, and a summary of the retrieved information. Importantly, 
GeneRxGPT ensures transparency by providing references to all sources used in 
the inference, including journal names, publication years, titles, and PubMed 
PMIDs with direct URLs. The drug–gene network module allows users to inter-
actively examine the pan-cancer drug–gene interaction network (Fig. 5D). Users 
can view the pan-cancer network, generate a subnetwork associated with a specific 
cancer type, and filter the network by confidence level (high, medium, or low). 
Additionally, the tool provides an operable and downloadable table with detailed 
information on the genes and drugs. 
In summary, GeneRxGPT provides a streamlined, accessible platform that 
integrates state-of-the-art LLMs with real-time literature retrieval. We an-
ticipate that this tool will empower cancer researchers to efficiently explore 
and interpret drug–gene relationships. 
Discussion 
The vast and ever-growing volume of biomedical literature has led to 
information overload in drug–gene studies, making it increasingly difficult 
for researchers to stay updated and synthesize relevant insights efficiently 
(54, 55). Emerging LLMs offer promising solutions, given their unprece-
dented ability to digest and interpret complex pharmacogenomic infor-
mation (56, 57). In this article we introduce, to the best of our knowledge, 
the first retrieval-augmented pipeline using GPT-4o to infer relationships 
between genes and drugs in cancer research. By integrating real-time in-
formation from PubMed, our approach addresses a significant limitation of 
traditional static LLMs, which often rely on outdated knowledge and can 
generate inaccurate or misleading inference on drug–gene relationships. 
For example, our analysis successfully corrected the mischaracterizations 
that occurred when using the static GPT-4o model alone for CX-5461 and 
OTS964. This discrepancy, partly due to outdated internal data within 
GPT-4o, highlights the critical importance of real-time literature retrieval 
in pharmacogenomics research. Additionally, the issue of false PMIDs 
generated by LLMs (14) underscores the advantage of using our retrieval- 
augmented approach, which grounds outputs in verifiable and current 
sources. 
Our pipeline enabled an efficient exploration among hundreds of approved 
drugs and key oncogenes. Network analysis identified hub genes (e.g., 
mTOR, BCL2, and STAT3) and hub drugs (e.g., cisplatin, sorafenib, and 
regorafenib), revealing key therapeutic strategies. Our case study in liver 
cancer, particularly on the interaction between CTNNB1 mutations and 
sorafenib, exemplifies the practical utility of the pipeline. Follow-up litera-
ture review confirmed this correlation in patients with HCC (51, 58). Beyond 
its known targets such as VEGFR and RAF (59), sorafenib also affects the 
WNT signaling pathway in CTNNB1-mutant HCC (60, 61). Studies have 
shown that sorafenib reduces β-catenin levels and downregulates WNT 
signaling in CTNNB1-mutant HCC cells and animal models, likely through 
interactions with other cellular pathways including TGFβ (60). Our findings 
were further validated by data from a clinical trial and drug sensitivity assays. 
These findings support the hypothesis that CTNNB1-mutant tumors may 
exhibit enhanced sensitivity to sorafenib, offering potential therapeutic 
benefit for this subset of patients. 
Despite its strengths, our pipeline has limitations that warrant further de-
velopment. The current prompts are tailored to identify direct and indirect 
interactions. However, the adaptability of the pipeline allows for the ex-
pansion of prompts to accommodate more complex interaction and gene 
mutation types, should future research require a deeper or more specific 
analysis of drug–gene dynamics. Beyond retrieval-based methods, creating 
domain-specific models based on fine-tuning may be a promising alternative. 
However, our results show that both fine-tuned LLM (Llama-3.2-PubMed) 
and non-LLM (BioBERT) underperformed compared with other models. 
Further studies are warranted to evaluate fine-tuning strategies for targeted 
biomedical tasks using larger annotated datasets and improved optimization. 
Another key issue is the inclusion of irrelevant information in the retrieved 
data, which can introduce noise and affect inference accuracy. Although our 
pipeline uses embedding-based search engines (LitSense) and keyword 
searches (PubMed search engine) to filter relevant data efficiently, some 
irrelevant content may persist. To mitigate this, our method assigns a con-
fidence level to each inference. We verified these confidence levels using a 
contamination approach. However, more robust content filtering mecha-
nisms may be needed to address irrelevant or even fabricated information 
(62). To this end, emerging multiagent systems that detect and assess the 
relevance of retrieved data (arXiv 2024.10.08.2405.18111) could be integrated 
into future versions of our pipeline. 
Hallucination is a critical limitation of LLMs (12). Our pipeline leverages 
retrieval-augmented generation to enhance factual accuracy by grounding 
outputs in real-time information from authoritative sources (arXiv 
2024.01.08.2401.01313; arXiv 2021.04.15.2104.07567). We used a multi-
pronged approach: real-time data and knowledge retrieval from the litera-
ture, prompt engineering to ensure well-grounded responses, and rigorous 
evaluation of generated inferences against established drug–gene relation-
ships. These measures ensure that inferred drug–gene relationships are not 
only up-to-date but also scientifically sound, as demonstrated by the sys-
tematic evaluation of inferences. This benchmarking process validates the 
accuracy of the pipeline’s outputs and directly assesses the risk of halluci-
nation. However, whereas the inferences are grounded in robust evaluation, 
the explanations and free-text summaries derived from the retrieved data 
remain more vulnerable to hallucination, particularly in cases in which in-
complete or ambiguous data affect rare or poorly studied interactions. To 
address this challenge, future improvements could include multiagent sys-
tems to collaboratively filter retrieved content and verify generated results 
(arXiv 2024.05.25.2405.16205) and hallucination detection methods (63) to 
further enhance the reliability of explanatory text and summaries (12). These 
enhancements will be essential for maintaining accuracy and trustworthiness 
as the complexity of biomedical research continues to grow. 
The selection and curation of negative drug–gene relationships for evalua-
tion posed a challenge due to the scarcity of well-documented negative in-
teractions in databases. PharmGKB served as our primary source, with “not 
associated” pairs representing relationships evaluated in the literature but 
lacking statistically significant associations. These cases were selected for 
their likely reliability as true negatives. However, the absence of specific 
cancer annotations required us to generalize the disease focus to “cancer,” 
which may underrepresent certain interactions and introduce bias favoring 
well-studied drugs and genes. Future expansions could incorporate broader 
resources, such as like DGIdb (3), that may offer a more comprehensive 
range of interactions. 
716 Cancer Res Comm un; 5(4) April 2025 https://doi.org/10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-25-0030 | CANCER RESEARCH COMMUNICATIONS 
Lai et al. 

Our pipeline relies on PubMed as the primary source for information re-
trieval, but its coverage is not exhaustive. Expanding to include clinical 
trial repositories, pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic databases, high- 
throughput genetic and drug screens, and multi-omics datasets could en-
hance drug–gene interaction analysis (64). Additionally, structured data 
formats like knowledge graphs may enrich contextual information and im-
prove model performance. Another challenge is managing context window 
limits and computation costs, as our prompts include up to 40 sentences or 
10 abstracts, potentially leading to truncation in some LLMs. Future im-
provements could focus on summarization and selective synthesis to opti-
mize efficiency and cost-effectiveness. 
Authors’ Disclosures 
S.P. Monga reports grants from Alnylam, Fog Pharma, and Revolution 
Medicine outside the submitted work. Y.-C. Chiu reports grants from the 
NIH and the Leukemia Research Foundation during the conduct of the 
study. No disclosures were reported by the other authors. 
Authors’ Contributions 
Y.-J. Lai: Data curation, formal analysis, validation, investigation, visuali-
zation, methodology, writing–original draft. L.-J. Wang: Conceptualization, 
data curation, software, investigation, visualization, methodology, writing– 
original draft. T.M. Yasaka: Data curation, formal analysis, validation, in-
vestigation, visualization. Y. Shin: Data curation, methodology. M. Ning: 
Methodology. Y. Tan: Investigation. C.-H. Shih: Investigation. Y. Guo: 
Investigation. P.-Y. Chen: Investigation. H. Galloway: Investigation. Z. Liu: 
Investigation. A. Das: Investigation. G.C. Tseng: Project administration, 
writing–review and editing. S.P. Monga: Supervision, funding acquisition, 
investigation, project administration, writing–review and editing. Y. Huang: 
Conceptualization, supervision, funding acquisition, investigation, project 
administration, writing–review and editing. Y.-C. Chiu: Conceptualization, 
supervision, funding acquisition, investigation, methodology, project ad-
ministration, writing–review and editing. 
Acknowledgments 
This work was supported by the NIH (R00CA248944, R35GM154967, and 
3R00CA248944-04S1 from the Office of the Director, and R03OD036494 
to Y.-C. Chiu; U01CA279618 and R21GM155774 to Y. Huang; R01CA285337 
to G.C. Tseng and Y.-C. Chiu; R01CA250227 and R01CA251155 to 
S.P. Monga; P30CA047904 to the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center 
Hillman Cancer Center and Y.-C. Chiu; P30DK120531 to the Genomics 
and Systems Biology Core of the Pittsburgh Liver Research Center, 
S.P. Monga, and Y.-C. Chiu; T32EB001026 to S.P. Monga and T.M. 
Yasaka; and S10OD028483 to the Center for Research Computing of the 
University of Pittsburgh) and the Leukemia Research Foundation (New 
Investigator Research Grant to Y.-C. Chiu). The funding sources had no 
role in the design of the study, collection, analysis, and interpretation of 
data, and writing the manuscript. The authors also thank Dr. Fangping Mu 
at the University of Pittsburgh Center for Research Computing for 
establishing the web server that hosts GeneRxGPT. The authors utilized 
GPT-4o of ChatGPT (OpenAI; San Francisco, CA) to enhance the read-
ability and language of this work. Following its use, the authors thoroughly 
reviewed and edited the content as necessary and take full responsibility 
for the content of the publication. 
Note 
Supplementary data for this article are available at Cancer Research Com-
munications Online (https://aacrjournals.org/cancerrescommun/). 
Received January 25, 2025; revised March 17, 2025; accepted April 15, 2025; 
posted first April 28, 2025. 
References 
1. Dugger SA , Platt A, Goldstein DB. Drug de vel opment in the er a of pr ecision 
medicine. Nat Re v Drug Disco v 2018;17:183–96. 
2. Paananen J, Fortino V . An omics perspective on drug target disco v ery plat-
forms. Brief Bioinform 2020;21:1937 –53. 
3. Cannon M, Ste v enson J, Stahl K, Basu R, Coffman A, Kiwala S, et al. DGIdb 5.0: 
r ebuilding the drug-gene inter action database for pr ecision medicine and 
drug disco v ery platforms. Nucleic Acids Res 202 4;52:D1227 –35. 
4. Jin Q, Leaman R, Lu Z. PubMed and be y ond: biomedical liter ature searc h in the 
age of artificial intellige nce. EBioMedicine 202 4;100:104988. 
5. Fiorini N, Canese K, Star chenk o G, Kir ee v E, Kim W , Miller V , et al. Best match: 
ne w r ele v ance sear ch for PubMed. PLoS Biol 2018;16:e2005343. 
6. Bor ah R, Br o wn A W , Capers PL, Kaiser KA. Analysis of the time and w ork ers 
needed to conduct sy stematic r e vie ws of medical interv entions using data 
fr om the PROSPERO r egistry . BMJ open 2017;7:e012545. 
7 . Roth JA, Cristiano RJ. Gene ther ap y for cancer: what hav e w e done and wher e 
ar e we going? J Natl Cancer Inst 199 7;89:21–39 . 
8. Nay ak A, Alkaitis MS, Nay ak K, Nik olo v M, Weinfurt KP , Schulman K. Com -
parison of history of pr esent illness summaries gener ated b y a chatbot and 
senior internal medicine r esidents. JAMA Intern Med 2023;183:1026– 7 . 
9. Hu M, Alkhairy S, Lee I, Pillich RT , Fong D , Smith K, et al. Ev aluation of large 
language models for disco ve ry of gene set function. Nat Methods 2025;22:82–91. 
10. Hou W , Ji Z. Assessing GPT -4 for cell type annotation in single-cell RNA -seq 
analysis. Nat Methods 202 4;21:1462–5. 
11. Ji Z, Lee N, Friesk e R, Yu T , Su D , Xu Y , et al. Surv e y of hallucination in natur al 
language gener ation. ACM Comput Surv 2023;55:1–38. 
12. Huang L, Yu W , Ma W , Zhong W , Feng Z, Wang H, et al. A surv ey on halluci-
nation in large language models: principles, tax onomy , challenges, and open 
questions. ACM Tr ans Inf Sy st 2025;43:1–55. 
13. Le wis P , Per ez E, Piktus A, Petr oni F , Karpukhin V , Go y al N, et al. Retrie v al- 
augmented gener ation for kno wledge-intensiv e nlp tasks. Ad v Neur al Inf 
Pr ocess Sy st 2020;33:9459– 7 4. 
14. Jin Q, Yang Y , Chen Q, Lu Z. GeneGPT : augmenting large language models 
with domain tools for impr o v ed acc ess to biomedical information. Bio-
informatics 202 4;40:btae0 75. 
15. Gilbert S, Kather JN, Hogan A. Augmented non-hallucinating large language 
models as medical information curat ors. NP J Digit Med 202 4;7:100. 
16. Alaw yia B, Constantinou C. Hepatoc ellular car cinoma: a narr ativ e r e vie w on curr ent 
kno wledge and futur e pr ospects. Curr Tr eat Options Oncol 2023;2 4:711–2 4. 
17 . Sung H, Ferlay J, Siegel RL, Lav ersanne M, Soerjomatar am I, Jemal A, et al. 
Global cancer statistics 2020: GL OBOCAN estimates of incidence and mor-
tality w orldwide for 36 cancers in 185 cou ntries. CA Cancer J Clin 2021;71: 
209–49. 
AACRJournals.org Cancer Res Commun; 5(4) April 2025 717 
GeneRxGPT: LLM-Based Drug–Gene Relationship Inference 

18. Sa y ers EW , Beck J, Bolton EE, Brister JR, Chan J, Comeau DC, et al. Database 
r esour ces of the national cent er for Biotechnology information. Nucleic Acids 
Res 202 4;52:D33–43. 
19. Allot A, Chen Q, Kim S, Ver a Alv ar ez R, Comeau DC, Wilbur WJ, et al. LitSense: 
making sense of biomedical liter atur e at sentenc e le v el. Nucleic Aci ds Res 
2019;4 7:W594–9. 
20. Wang L, Mao Y , Wang L, Sun Y , Song J, Zhang Y . Suitability of GPT -4o as an 
e v aluator of cardiop ulmonary r esuscitation skills ex aminations. Resuscitation 
202 4;204:110404. 
21. Lee J, Yoon W , Kim S, Kim D , Kim S, So CH, et al. BioBERT : a pr e-tr ained 
biomedical language r epr esentation model for biomedical te xt mining. Bio-
informatics 2020;36:1234–40. 
22. Wei J, Wang X, Schuurmans D , Bosma M, Xia F , Chi E, et al. Chain-of-thought 
pr ompting elicits r easoning in large language models. Adv Neura l Inf Pr ocess 
Sy st 2022;35:2 482 4–37 . 
23. K ojima T , Gu SS, Reid M, Matsuo Y , Iw asaw a Y . Larg e language models ar e 
zer o-shot r easoners. Adv Neura l Inf Pr ocess Sy st 2022;35:22199–213. 
2 4. Pantziarka P , Capistr ano I R, De Potter A, Vandeborne L, Bouche G. An 
open acc ess database of licensed cancer drugs. Fr ont Pharmacol 2021;12: 
6275 7 4. 
25. Whirl-Carrillo M, McDonagh EM, Hebert J, Gong L, Sangkuhl K, Thorn C, et al. 
Pharmaco genomics kno wledge for personalized medicine. Clin Pharmacol 
Ther 2012;92 :414– 7 . 
26. Whirl-Carrillo M, Huddart R, Gong L, Sangkuhl K, Thorn CF , Whale y R, et al. An 
e vidence-based fr ame w ork for ev aluating pharmac ogenomics know ledge for 
personaliz ed medicine. Clin Pharmacol Ther 2021;110:563– 72. 
27 . Hanle y JA, McNeil BJ. The meaning and use of the ar ea under a r eceiv er 
oper ating char acteristic (ROC) curv e. Radiology 1982;143:29–36. 
28. Fluss R, Far aggi D , Reiser B. Estimation of the Youden Inde x and its associated 
cutoff point. Biom J 2005;4 7:458– 72. 
29. Sondka Z, Dhir NB, Carv alho-Silv a D , Jupe S, Madhumita, McLar en K, Starke y 
M, et al. C OSMIC: a cur ated database of somatic v ariants and clinical data for 
cancer . Nucleic Acids Res 202 4;52:D1210– 7 . 
30. Cor sello SM, Bittk er JA, Liu Z, Gould J, McCarr en P , Hirschman JE, et al. The 
drug r epurposing hub: a ne xt-gener ation drug libr ary and information r e-
sour ce. Nat Med 2017;23:405–8. 
31. Shannon P , Markiel A, Ozier O , Baliga NS, Wang JT , Ramage D , et al. Cyt o-
scape: a softwar e en vir onment for integr ated models of biomolecular inter-
action netw orks. Genome Res 2003;13:2 498–504. 
32. Chang W , Cheng J, Allair e J, Sie v ert C, Schloerk e B, Xie Y , et al. shiny: w eb 
application fr ame w ork for R (R package v ersion 1. 10. 0.9000) [C omputer 
softwar e]. 2025. 
33. Wickham H. httr: tools for wor king with URLs and HTTP (R package v ersion 1. 
4. 6) [C omputer softwar e] 2023. 
34. Guha R. Chemical informatics functionality in R. J Stat Softw 200 7;18:1– 16. 
35. Guile y KZ, Ste vens on JW , Lou K, Barko vich KJ, Kumar asamy V , Wijer atne TU, 
et al. p27 allosterically activ ates cyc lin-dependent kinase 4 and antagonizes 
palbociclib inhibition. Science 2019;366:eaa w2106. 
36. Loft M, Lok S W , De Boer R, Malik L, Gr eenberg S, Yeo B, et al. Addition of 
endocrine ther ap y to dual anti-HER2 target ed ther ap y in initial tr eatment of 
HER2+/HR+ metastatic br east cancer . Br east Cancer Res Tr eat 2023;198: 
6 7 – 7 4. 
37 . Weil MK, Chen A. P ARP inhibitor trea tment in o v arian and br east cancer . Curr 
Pr obl Cancer 2011;35:7 –50. 
38. Dry gin D , Lin A, Bliesath J, Ho CB, O’Brien SE, Pr offitt C, et al. Targeting RNA 
polymer ase I with an or al small molecule CX -5461 inhibits ribosomal RNA 
synthes is and solid tumor gr o wth. Cancer Res 2011;71:1418– 30. 
39. Pan M, Wright WC, Chapple RH, Zubair A, Sandhu M, Batchelder JE, et al. The 
chemother apeutic CX -5461 primarily targets TOP2B and e xhibits selectiv e 
activity in high-risk neur oblastoma. Nat Commun 2021;12:6468. 
40. Matsuo Y , Park JH, Miy amoto T , Yamamot o S, Hisada S, Alachkar H, et al. 
TOPK inhibitor induces complet e tumor r egr ession in x enogr aft models of 
human cancer thr ough inhibition of cytokinesis. Sci Tr ansl Med 2014;6: 
259r a145. 
41. Lin A, Giuliano CJ, Palladino A, John KM, Abr amo wicz C, Yuan ML, et al. Off- 
target to xicity is a common mechanism of action of cancer drugs undergoing 
clinical trials. Sci Tr ansl Med 2019;11:eaaw84 12. 
42. K elso S, O’Brien S, Kurino v I, Angers S, Sicheri F . Crystal structur e of the 
CDK11 kinase domain bound to the small-molecule inhibitor O TS964. Structure 
2022;30:1615–25. e4. 
43. Brysbaert M. Ho w many w ords do w e r ead per minute ? A r e vie w and meta- 
analysis of r eading r ate. J Mem Lang 2019;109:10404 7 . 
44. Ryszkie wicz P , Malino wska B, Schlick er E. Polypharmacology: pr omises and 
ne w drugs in 2022. Pharmaco l Rep 2023;75:7 55– 70 . 
45. Hashemi M, Sabouni E, Rahmanian P , Entezari M, Mojtaba vi M, Raei B, et al. 
Deciphering STAT 3 signaling potential in hepatoc ellular carc inoma: tumori-
genesis, treat ment r esistance, and pharmacological significance. Cell Mol Biol 
Lett 2023;28:33. 
46. Panw ar V , Singh A, Bhatt M, Tonk RK, Azizo v S, Raza AS, et al. Multifacet ed 
r ole of mTOR (mammalian target of r apamy cin) signaling pathw ay in human 
health and disease. Signal Tr ansduct Target Ther 2023;8:37 5. 
47 . Eferl R, Ricci R, K enner L, Z enz R, David JP , Rath M, et al. Liv er tumor de v elopment. 
c-Jun antagonizes the pr oapoptotic activity of p53. Cell 2003;112:181–9 2. 
48. Cancer Genome A tlas Resear ch Netw ork. Compr ehensiv e and integr ativ e ge-
nomic char acterization of hepat ocellular car cinoma. Cell 2017;169:1327 –41. e23. 
49. Llo v et J, K elle y R, Villanue va A, Singal A, Pikarsky E, Roay aie S, et al. Hepa-
toc ellular car cinoma. Nat Re v Dis Primers 2021;7:6. 
50. Ruiz de Galarr eta M, Br esnahan E, Molina-Sanchez P , Lindblad KE, Maier B, Sia 
D , et al. β-Catenin activ ation pr omotes immune escape and r esistance to anti- 
PD- 1 ther ap y in hepatocel lular car cinoma. Cancer Disco v 2019;9:112 4–41 . 
51. Zhu AX, Abbas AR, de Galarr eta MR, Guan Y , Lu S, Ko eppen H, et al. Molecular 
corr elates of clinical r esponse and r esistance to atez olizumab in combination 
with be va cizumab in adva nced hepatoc ellular car cinoma. Nat Med 2022;28: 
1599–611. 
52. Corsello SM, Nagari RT , Spangler RD , Rossen J, Ko cak M, Bry an JG, et al. 
Disco veri ng the anti-canc er potential of non-onc ology drugs b y sy stematic 
viability pr ofiling. Nat Cance r 2020;1:235–48. 
53. Tsherniak A, Vazquez F , Montgomery PG, Weir BA, Kryuk o v G, Co wle y GS, 
et al. Defining a cancer dependency map. Cell 2017;170:564– 7 6.e16. 
54. Landhuis E. Scientific liter atur e: information o v erload. Natur e 2016;535:45 7 –8. 
55. Hoł y st JA, Mayr P , Thelw all M, Fr ommholz I, Havlin S, Sela A, et al. Pr otect our 
envir onment fr om information o v erload. Nat Hum Behav 202 4;8:402–3. 
56. Murugan M, Yuan B, Venner E, Ballantyne CM, Robinson KM, Coons JC, et al. 
Empo w ering personaliz ed pharmacogenomics with gener ative AI solutions. 
J Am Med Inform Assoc 202 4;31:1356–66. 
57 . Patrinos GP , Sarhangi N, Sarr ami B, Khoday ari N, Larijani B, Hasanzad M. Using 
ChatGPT to pr edict the futur e of personalized medicine. Pharmacogenomics J 
2023;23:178–84. 
58. Lehrich BM, Tao J, Liu S, Hirsch TZ, Yasaka TM, Cao C, et al. De ve lopment of 
mutated beta-catenin gene signatur e to identify CTNNB1 mutations fr om whole 
and spatial tr anscriptomic data in patients with HC C. JHEP Rep 202 4;6:101186. 
59 . Wilhelm SM, Carter C, Tang L, Wilkie D , McNabola A, Rong H, et al. BA Y 43- 
9006 e xhibits br oad spectrum or al antitumor activity and targets the RAF / 
MEK/ERK pathw ay and r ecept or tyr osine kinases inv olv ed in tumor pr ogr es-
sion and angiogenesis. Cancer Res 2004;64:7 099– 109. 
60. Lachenmay er A, Alsinet C, Savic R, Cabellos L, Toffanin S, Hoshida Y , et al. Wnt- 
pathw ay activ ation in tw o molecular classes of hepatoc ellular car cinoma and 
e xperimental modulation b y sor afenib. Clin Cancer Res 2012;18:4997 –500 7 . 
6 1. Jia D , Dong R, Jing Y , Xu D , Wang Q, Chen L, et al. Ex ome sequencing of 
hepatoblast oma r e v eals no vel mutations and cancer genes in the Wnt path-
wa y and ubiquitin ligase comple x. Hepatology 2014;60:1686–96. 
62. Yang J, Xu H, Mirzo y an S, Chen T , Liu Z, Liu Z, et al. Poisoning medical kno wl-
edge using large language models. Nat Machine Intellig ence 202 4;6:1156–68. 
63. Farquhar S, K ossen J, Kuhn L, Gal Y . Detecting hallucinations in large language 
models using semantic entr op y . Natur e 202 4;630:625–3 0. 
64. Nay ak T , Wang LJ, Ning M, Rubannelsonkumar G, Jin E, Zheng S, et al. 
DepLink: an R Shiny app to sy stematically link genetic and pharmacologic 
dependencies of cancer . Bioinform Adv 2023;3:vbad0 76 . 
718 Cancer Res Comm un; 5(4) April 2025 https://doi.org/10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-25-0030 | CANCER RESEARCH COMMUNICATIONS 
Lai et al. 